# AWS CERTIFIED CLOUD PRACTITIONER

### Fundamentals of Cloud Computing Platform.
#### Data Center Approach
- Requirement: Your company wants to host their website.
- Solution: 
  * Choose the DataCenter/Hosting Provider
  * You need to typically send them enquiry about your requirements
  * They will contact you and price negociations.

Could computing is a model in which computing resources are available as a service. So we can customize based on our requiriments on a specific time.

Example 1:
Due to some big promotion, server capacity needs to be increased from 4GB RAM to 32GB RAM.

- Data Center Provider Way:
  * Buy a 32 GB RAM stick & install it onto your server.
- Hosting Provider Way:
  * Raise a support ticket and expect response within 15 minutes to 12 hours for response.
  * Get the DC guys to resize your server.
- Cloud Way:
  * Stop the server & change the instance size.

#### Cloud computing
Cloud computing is a model in which computing resource are available as a service.
- 3 important characteristic of Cloud Computing:
  * On-demand & self serviced \[Any time launch without manual intervention\]
  * Elasticity.               \[Can scale up and down anytime\]
  * Measured Service          \[Pay what you use\]

###### Types of cloud computing
There are 3 types of Cloud Computing models.
- Software as a service           \[Google Docs, Office 365\]
- Platform as a service           \[Google App Engine\]
- Infrastructure as a service     \[AWS, Linode, Digital Ocean\]

#### Architecture of Cloud Environments

###### Cloud is Data Center secretly
Cloud from behind the scenes is data center only.
Virtualization allows us to run multiple OS on a single hardware.
There are many virtualization softwares available like:
- VMware Workstation / vSphere
- KVM
- XEN
- VirtualBox

Now typically virtualization allows us to run multiple operating system on a single hardware.

#### On-Demand & Self Service
###### Challenges
- On-Demand does not always means that you will be able to launch instances at any given point of time.
- Event a Cloud provider has limits, though it might be high, these limits are definitely reached.

#### Elasticity
- Elasticity deals with adding and removing capacity, whenever it is needed in the environment.
- Capacity generally refers to mostly processing & memory.
- It is like a rubber band. 

#### Scalability
- Horizontal Scalability: Adding or removing instances from pool like cluster farm.
- Vertical Scalability: Adding or removing resource for existing servers.


### Core AWS Services.
#### Pay as you go Model
- Pay as you consume model allows organizations to scale their resources well and only pay for what they have used.
- Generally, the model works based on hourly costs.
- This model is terrific especially due to AWS Marketplace support.

#### AWS Global Infrastructure
###### Availability Zone
- AWS Data Centers are organized into Availability Zones (AZ)
- Each availability zone are located at lower-risk locations.
- There are multiple AZ and each of them is separate by geographic region.
- Each AZ is designed for independent failure zone.
- Thus, they are physically separated.
- The AZ are inter-connected with high speed private links.
- Each availability zone are located at lower-risk locations.

###### AWS Regions
- Each region contains two or more availability zones.
- AWS has 16 number of regions worldwide as of 2017.

###### AWS Global Infrastructure
- AWS currently operates on 16 regions across the world with 44 availability zones.

#### Setting up the lab
###### Create a free account
- Link: https://aws.amazon.com/free
- Add required information
- Fill out the required fields and choose Personal account.
- Once you finished the steps. You will receive a email.

#### Multi-Factor Authentication
- Go to your account's dropdown
- Choose My security credentials
- In the popup choose **Continue to security credentials**
- Go to **Multi-factor authentication (MFA)**
- Click on Activate MFA
- We will have some options, but for this example we will choose **Virtual MFA device**, since it is the simpler one.
- You will need to install Google Authenticator in your android device or as an chrome extension, then scan the QA code that will be generated.
- Assign the first two codes generated by the application
- That is it!
- After configure Multi-factor authentication, next time you will need to login, an MFA code will be required.

#### Creating our first IAM user
If someone gets your root account, he can do everything. However if someone gets far account of your name user, you can immediately restrict the access or block the access of the attacker. 

- Go to Services dropdown
- Choose IAM
- Go to users option
- Add user
- Fill required fields.
- Set the required permissions.
- Once done. The console will show you what is the link you require for accessing with the user.
- Then we can also configure the multi-factor authentication for this new user.






















